# Suicide rates by country
Experiment in linear regression with data on suicide rates in various countries, along with their socioeconomic data.

**16/08/23:** Initial work included cleaning of data (such as improving column headings, reformatting data etc), as well as some preliminary data visualisation in the forms of two graphs: one of the amount of data by country, and the other a multi-line plot of GDP by country over time. The latter graph, however, is massively distorted due to the large GDP of countries like the USA and Japan. A more logical step to see the *majority* of the data would be to redo the plot and remove the "outlier" lines.

**17/08/23:** Data from previous "GDP by country over time" plot was trimmed to manually remove top few countries, but still resulted in a (less) bottom-heavy plot. Code for plotting such multi-line graphs was rearranged into one function to be called when needed, as well as abandoning the colormap as it was unnecessary. Finally, started visualisation of suicide rate data by first calculating the suicide rate using the formula $$\frac{total\ suicides}{total\ population}\times 10,000$$ to amalgamate suicide rates across genders/ages etc. In future, reduction of data in the visualisation will be necessary, as the latest plot is MESSY. Perhaps group into continents / regions? Then subplots in the same figure? Hopefully soon actual regression work will start as well.

**28/08/23:** Finally got my head around taking a weighted average of suicide rates and how to put this into practice by iterating over a DataFrame. From the "avg_suicides_df" DataFrame (to which the "population" column was added), for each country with $m$ country years in the dataset and corresponding populations $N_1,\dots,N_m$ and suicide rates $R_1,\dots,R_m$ per 100k population, the weighted average was calculated using the formula $$\bar{R} = \sum_{i=1}^{m}\frac{N_i}{N_1+\dots+N_m}R_i$$ and this was put into a rudimentary bar chart. This was checked against current data for countries by suicide rate on [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_suicide_rate) and many of the countries with the top suicide rates matched up, leading me to believe (perhaps falsely) that my calculations are sensible and meaningful. I believe this is enough visualization for now (famous last words), so the next step will be to start looking into regression.